README.md, before:

# Firefox Monitor Server

[![Functional Test Suite](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/functional_tests_cron.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/functional_tests_cron.yml)

## Summary

Firefox Monitor notifies users when their credentials have been compromised in a data breach.

This code is for the monitor.mozilla.org service & website.

Breach data is powered by [haveibeenpwned.com](https://haveibeenpwned.com/).

See the [Have I Been Pwned about page](https://haveibeenpwned.com/About) for
the "what" and "why" of data breach alerts.

## Architecture

![Image of Monitor architecture](docs/monitor-architecture.png "Firefox Monitor")

## Development

### Requirements

- [Volta](https://volta.sh/) (installs the correct version of Node and npm)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) | Note: On a Mac, we recommend downloading the [Postgres.app](https://postgresapp.com/) instead.
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) | [With Homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-and-Python)
- [k6](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/set-up/install-k6/) | k6 load testing tool

### Code style

Linting and formatting is enforced via [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) and [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) for JS and CSS. Both are installed as dev-dependencies and can be run with `npm run lint`. A push to origin will also trigger linting.

ESLint rules are based on [eslint-config-standard](https://github.com/standard/eslint-config-standard). To fix all auto-fixable problems, run `npx eslint . --fix`

Stylelint rules are based on [stylelint-config-standard](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint-config-standard). To fix all auto-fixable problems, run `npx stylelint public/css/ --fix`

### GIT

We track commits that are largely style/formatting via `.git-blame-ignore-revs`. This allows Git Blame to ignore the format commit author and show the original code author. In order to enable this in GitLens, add the following to VS Code `settings.json`:

```
"gitlens.advanced.blame.customArguments": [
   "--ignore-revs-file",
   ".git-blame-ignore-revs"
],
```

### Database

To create the database tables you have two options: manually, or using docker-compose

#### Manual setup

1. Create the `blurts` database:

   ```sh
   createdb blurts
   createdb test-blurts # for tests
   ```

2. Update the `DATABASE_URL` value in your `.env.local` (see step 3 under
   "Install") file with your local db credentials:

   ```
   DATABASE_URL="postgres://<username>:<password>@localhost:<port>/blurts"
   ```

3. Run the migrations:

   ```
   npm run db:migrate
   ```

#### Via docker-compose

This will automatically provision the databases 'blurts' and 'test-blurts', and a user 'blurts' with password 'blurts'. The connection string in your .env.local file should be: "postgres://blurts:blurts@localhost:5432/blurts"

1. Ensure that you have an up-to-date .env.local file.

   ```$sh
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

2. Start docker containers (this will stand up all services defined, including pubsub)

   ```sh
   docker compose --env-file .env.local up -d
   ```

3. To tear down (this will delete stored data):

   ```sh
   docker compose --env-file .env.local down
   ```

### Install

1. Clone and change to the directory:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server.git
   cd blurts-server
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

3. Copy the `.env.local.example` file to `.env.local`:

   ```sh
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

4. Install fluent linter (requires Python)

   ```sh
   pip install -r .github/requirements.txt

   OR

   pip3 install -r .github/requirements.txt
   ```

5. Generate required Glean files (needs re-ran anytime Glean `.yaml` files are updated):

   ```sh
   npm run build-glean
   ```

6. Generate required Nimbus files (needs re-ran anytime Nimbus' `config/nimbus.yaml` file is updated):

   ```sh
   npm run build-nimbus
   ```

7. Create location data: Running the script manually is only needed for local development. The location data is being used in the onboarding exposures scan for autocompleting the “City and state” input.

   ```sh
   npm run create-location-data
   ```

8. Ensure that you have the right `env` variables/keys set in your `.env.local` file. You can retrieve the variables from the Firefox Monitor 1Password Vault, or through [Magic-Wormhole](https://magic-wormhole.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), by asking one of the our engineers.

### Run

1. To run the server similar to production using a build phase, which includes minified and bundled assets:

   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

   **_OR_**

   Run in "dev mode" with:

   ```sh
   npm run dev
   ```

2. You may receive the error `Required environment variable was not set`. If this is the case, get the required env var(s) from another team member or ask in #fx-monitor-engineering. Otherwise, if the server started successfully, navigate to [localhost:6060](http://localhost:6060/)

### PubSub

Monitor uses GCP PubSub for processing incoming breach data, this can be tested locally using an emulator: <https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/emulator>

You can run the emulator manually or via docker-compose.

#### Manual Setup

##### Run the GCP PubSub emulator

```sh
gcloud beta emulators pubsub start --project=your-project-name
```

(Set `your-project-name` as the value for `GCP_PUBSUB_PROJECT_ID` in your `.env.local`.)

#### Docker Compose Setup

This will automatically provision a pubsub topic named 'hibp-breaches' with a subscription named 'hibp-cron'.

1. Ensure that you have an up-to-date .env.local file.

   ```$sh
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

2. Start docker containers (this will stand up all services defined, including postgres)

   ```sh
   docker compose --env-file .env.local up -d
   ```

### In a different shell, set the environment to point at the emulator and run Monitor in dev mode

```sh
$(gcloud beta emulators pubsub env-init)
npm run dev
```

### Incoming WebHook requests from HIBP will be of the form

```sh
curl -d '{ "breachName": "000webhost", "hashPrefix": "test", "hashSuffixes": ["test"] }' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer unsafe-default-token-for-dev" \
  http://localhost:6060/api/v1/hibp/notify
```

This emulates HIBP notifying our API that a new breach was found. Our API will
then add it to the (emulated) pubsub queue.

### This pubsub queue will be consumed by this cron job, which is responsible for looking up and emailing impacted users

```sh
NODE_ENV="development" npm run dev:cron:breach-alerts
```

### Emails

Monitor generates multiple emails that get sent to subscribers. To preview or test-send these emails see documentation [here](docs/monitor-emails.md).

### Mozilla accounts ("FxA", formerly known as Firefox accounts)

The repo comes with a development FxA oauth app pre-configured in `.env`, which
should work fine running the app on <http://localhost:6060>. You'll need to get
the `OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` value from a team member or someone in #fxmonitor-engineering.

## Testing

The unit test suite can be run via `npm test`.

At the beginning of a test suite run, the `test-blurts` database will be populated with test tables and seed data found in `src/db/seeds/`

At the end of a test suite, coverage info will be sent to [Coveralls](https://coveralls.io/) to assess coverage changes and provide a neat badge. To upload coverage locally, you need a root `.coveralls.yml` which contains a token – get this from another member of the Monitor team.

The [functional tests](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/src/functional-tests) use Playwright and can be run via `npm run functional-tests`.

#### Test Firefox Integration

_**TODO:** the following functionality is disabled but the instructions are left here for posterity._

Firefox's internal about:protections page ("Protections Dashboard") fetches and
displays breach stats for Firefox users who are signed into their FXA.

To test this part of Monitor:

1. [Set a Firefox profile to use the staging Firefox Accounts
   server.](https://mozilla.github.io/ecosystem-platform/docs/process/using-the-staging-environment#working-with-staging-firefox-accounts)
2. In the same profile, go to about:config and replace [all
   `https://monitor.firefox.com`
   values](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/search?q=monitor.firefox.com&path=browser/app/profile/firefox.js) with `http://localhost:6060`
3. Restart Firefox with that profile.
4. Go to `about:protections`
5. Everything should be using your localhost instance of Monitor.

#### Load testing

k6 is used for load testing.

See <https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/get-started/running-k6/> for more information.

##### HIBP breach alerts

To test the HIBP breach alerts endpoint, use:

```sh
export SERVER_URL=...
export HIBP_NOTIFY_TOKEN=...
npm run loadtest:hibp-webhook
```

You can customise the number of requests to send in parallel ("virtual users") by setting the
[`K6_VUS`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6/k6-options/reference/#vus) environment
variable (default 1000), and for how long to send those requests by setting the
[`K6_DURATION`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6/k6-options/reference/#duration)
environment variable (default 30s).

You can also enforce the alert being sent for a specific email address via the
`LOADTEST_BREACHED_EMAIL` environment variable.

## Localization

All text that is visible to the user is defined in [Fluent](https://projectfluent.org/) files inside `/locales/en/` and `/locales-pending/`. After strings get added to files in the former directory on our `main` branch, they will be made available to our volunteer localizers via Pontoon, Mozilla's localization platform. Be sure to reference the [localization documentation](https://mozilla-l10n.github.io/documentation/localization/dev_best_practices.html) for best practices. It's best to only move the strings to `/locales/en/` when they are more-or-less final and ready for localization. Your PR should be automatically tagged with a reviewer from the [Mozilla L10n team](https://wiki.mozilla.org/L10n:Mozilla_Team) to approve your request.

You can check translation status via the [Pontoon site](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/projects/firefox-monitor-website/). After strings have been localized, [a pull request](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/pulls?q=is%3Apr+label%3Al10n+) with the updated strings is automatically opened against our repository. Please be mindful that Mozilla localizers are volunteers, and translations come from different locales at different times – usually after a week or more.

To use the strings in code, you need to obtain a `ReactLocalization` instance, which selects the right version of your desired string for the user. How to do that depends on where your code runs: in tests, in a cron job, in a server component, or on the client-side. Generally, you will import a `getL10n` function from one of the modules in `/src/app/functions/l10n/`, except for [Client Components](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components), which use [the `useL10n` hook](./src/app/hooks/l10n.ts). Look at existing code for inspiration.

## Preview Deployment

We use GCP Cloudrun for dev review – official stage and production apps are built by the Dockerfile and Github Actions. Everything that is merged into `main` will deploy automatically to stage. The ADR for preview deployment can be found [here](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/blob/main/docs/adr/0008-preview-deployment.md)

_**TODO:** add full deploy process similar to Relay_

_**TODO:** consider whether we can re-enable Heroku Review Apps_

Commit message:

chore: add local env var instructions
Instructions are currently spread out across env files and
different readme sections; centralize all setup

README.md, after:

# Firefox Monitor Server

[![Functional Test Suite](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/functional_tests_cron.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/functional_tests_cron.yml)

## Summary

Firefox Monitor notifies users when their credentials have been compromised in a data breach.

This code is for the monitor.mozilla.org service & website.

Breach data is powered by [haveibeenpwned.com](https://haveibeenpwned.com/).

See the [Have I Been Pwned about page](https://haveibeenpwned.com/About) for
the "what" and "why" of data breach alerts.

## Architecture

![Image of Monitor architecture](docs/monitor-architecture.png "Firefox Monitor")

## Development

### Requirements

- [Volta](https://volta.sh/) (installs the correct version of Node and npm)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) | Note: On a Mac, we recommend downloading the [Postgres.app](https://postgresapp.com/) instead.
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) | [With Homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-and-Python)
- [k6](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/set-up/install-k6/) | k6 load testing tool

### Code style

Linting and formatting is enforced via [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) and [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) for JS and CSS. Both are installed as dev-dependencies and can be run with `npm run lint`. A push to origin will also trigger linting.

ESLint rules are based on [eslint-config-standard](https://github.com/standard/eslint-config-standard). To fix all auto-fixable problems, run `npx eslint . --fix`

Stylelint rules are based on [stylelint-config-standard](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint-config-standard). To fix all auto-fixable problems, run `npx stylelint public/css/ --fix`

### GIT

We track commits that are largely style/formatting via `.git-blame-ignore-revs`. This allows Git Blame to ignore the format commit author and show the original code author. In order to enable this in GitLens, add the following to VS Code `settings.json`:

```
"gitlens.advanced.blame.customArguments": [
   "--ignore-revs-file",
   ".git-blame-ignore-revs"
],
```

### Database

To create the database tables you have two options: manually, or using docker-compose

#### Manual setup

1. Create the `blurts` database:

   ```sh
   createdb blurts
   createdb test-blurts # for tests
   ```

2. Update the `DATABASE_URL` value in your `.env.local` (see step 3 under
   "Install") file with your local db credentials:

   ```
   DATABASE_URL="postgres://<username>:<password>@localhost:<port>/blurts"
   ```

3. Run the migrations:

   ```
   npm run db:migrate
   ```

#### Via docker-compose

This will automatically provision the databases 'blurts' and 'test-blurts', and a user 'blurts' with password 'blurts'. The connection string in your .env.local file should be: "postgres://blurts:blurts@localhost:5432/blurts"

1. Ensure that you have an up-to-date .env.local file.

   ```$sh
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

2. Start docker containers (this will stand up all services defined, including pubsub)

   ```sh
   docker compose --env-file .env.local up -d
   ```

3. Run migrations

   ```sh
   npm run db:migrate
   ```

4. To tear down (this will delete stored data):

   ```sh
   docker compose --env-file .env.local down
   ```

### Install

1. Clone and change to the directory:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server.git
   cd blurts-server
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

3. Copy the `.env.local.example` file to `.env.local`:

   ```sh
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

4. Install fluent linter (requires Python)

   ```sh
   pip install -r .github/requirements.txt

   OR

   pip3 install -r .github/requirements.txt
   ```

5. Generate required Glean files (needs re-ran anytime Glean `.yaml` files are updated):

   ```sh
   npm run build-glean
   ```

6. Generate required Nimbus files (needs re-ran anytime Nimbus' `config/nimbus.yaml` file is updated):

   ```sh
   npm run build-nimbus
   ```

7. Create location data: Running the script manually is only needed for local development. The location data is being used in the onboarding exposures scan for autocompleting the “City and state” input.

   ```sh
   npm run create-location-data
   ```

8. Ensure that you have the right `env` variables/keys set in your `.env.local` file. You can retrieve the variables from the Firefox Monitor 1Password Vault, or through [Magic-Wormhole](https://magic-wormhole.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), by asking one of the our engineers.

### Set up required environment variables

The following variables must be set in `.env.local` and can be found in the Firefox Monitor 1Password vault.

- `OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`: set to the dev environment secret key
- `ONEREP_API_KEY`: set to the onerep "sandbox" key (fake data)

### Run

1. To run the server similar to production using a build phase, which includes minified and bundled assets:

   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

   **_OR_**

   Run in "dev mode" with:

   ```sh
   npm run dev
   ```

2. You may receive the error `Required environment variable was not set`. If this is the case, get the required env var(s) from another team member or ask in #fx-monitor-engineering. Otherwise, if the server started successfully, navigate to [localhost:6060](http://localhost:6060/)

### PubSub

Monitor uses GCP PubSub for processing incoming breach data, this can be tested locally using an emulator: <https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/emulator>

You can run the emulator manually or via docker-compose.

#### Manual Setup

##### Run the GCP PubSub emulator

```sh
gcloud beta emulators pubsub start --project=your-project-name
```

(Set `your-project-name` as the value for `GCP_PUBSUB_PROJECT_ID` in your `.env.local`.)

#### Docker Compose Setup

This will automatically provision a pubsub topic named 'hibp-breaches' with a subscription named 'hibp-cron'.

1. Ensure that you have an up-to-date .env.local file.

   ```$sh
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

2. Start docker containers (this will stand up all services defined, including postgres)

   ```sh
   docker compose --env-file .env.local up -d
   ```

### In a different shell, set the environment to point at the emulator and run Monitor in dev mode

```sh
$(gcloud beta emulators pubsub env-init)
npm run dev
```

### Incoming WebHook requests from HIBP will be of the form

```sh
curl -d '{ "breachName": "000webhost", "hashPrefix": "test", "hashSuffixes": ["test"] }' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer unsafe-default-token-for-dev" \
  http://localhost:6060/api/v1/hibp/notify
```

This emulates HIBP notifying our API that a new breach was found. Our API will
then add it to the (emulated) pubsub queue.

### This pubsub queue will be consumed by this cron job, which is responsible for looking up and emailing impacted users

```sh
NODE_ENV="development" npm run dev:cron:breach-alerts
```

### Emails

Monitor generates multiple emails that get sent to subscribers. To preview or test-send these emails see documentation [here](docs/monitor-emails.md).

### Mozilla accounts ("FxA", formerly known as Firefox accounts)

The repo comes with a development FxA oauth app pre-configured in `.env`, which
should work fine running the app on <http://localhost:6060>. You'll need to get
the `OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` value from a team member or someone in #fxmonitor-engineering.

## Testing

The unit test suite can be run via `npm test`.

At the beginning of a test suite run, the `test-blurts` database will be populated with test tables and seed data found in `src/db/seeds/`

At the end of a test suite, coverage info will be sent to [Coveralls](https://coveralls.io/) to assess coverage changes and provide a neat badge. To upload coverage locally, you need a root `.coveralls.yml` which contains a token – get this from another member of the Monitor team.

The [functional tests](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/src/functional-tests) use Playwright and can be run via `npm run functional-tests`.

#### Test Firefox Integration

_**TODO:** the following functionality is disabled but the instructions are left here for posterity._

Firefox's internal about:protections page ("Protections Dashboard") fetches and
displays breach stats for Firefox users who are signed into their FXA.

To test this part of Monitor:

1. [Set a Firefox profile to use the staging Firefox Accounts
   server.](https://mozilla.github.io/ecosystem-platform/docs/process/using-the-staging-environment#working-with-staging-firefox-accounts)
2. In the same profile, go to about:config and replace [all
   `https://monitor.firefox.com`
   values](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/search?q=monitor.firefox.com&path=browser/app/profile/firefox.js) with `http://localhost:6060`
3. Restart Firefox with that profile.
4. Go to `about:protections`
5. Everything should be using your localhost instance of Monitor.

#### Load testing

k6 is used for load testing.

See <https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/get-started/running-k6/> for more information.

##### HIBP breach alerts

To test the HIBP breach alerts endpoint, use:

```sh
export SERVER_URL=...
export HIBP_NOTIFY_TOKEN=...
npm run loadtest:hibp-webhook
```

You can customise the number of requests to send in parallel ("virtual users") by setting the
[`K6_VUS`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6/k6-options/reference/#vus) environment
variable (default 1000), and for how long to send those requests by setting the
[`K6_DURATION`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6/k6-options/reference/#duration)
environment variable (default 30s).

You can also enforce the alert being sent for a specific email address via the
`LOADTEST_BREACHED_EMAIL` environment variable.

## Localization

All text that is visible to the user is defined in [Fluent](https://projectfluent.org/) files inside `/locales/en/` and `/locales-pending/`. After strings get added to files in the former directory on our `main` branch, they will be made available to our volunteer localizers via Pontoon, Mozilla's localization platform. Be sure to reference the [localization documentation](https://mozilla-l10n.github.io/documentation/localization/dev_best_practices.html) for best practices. It's best to only move the strings to `/locales/en/` when they are more-or-less final and ready for localization. Your PR should be automatically tagged with a reviewer from the [Mozilla L10n team](https://wiki.mozilla.org/L10n:Mozilla_Team) to approve your request.

You can check translation status via the [Pontoon site](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/projects/firefox-monitor-website/). After strings have been localized, [a pull request](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/pulls?q=is%3Apr+label%3Al10n+) with the updated strings is automatically opened against our repository. Please be mindful that Mozilla localizers are volunteers, and translations come from different locales at different times – usually after a week or more.

To use the strings in code, you need to obtain a `ReactLocalization` instance, which selects the right version of your desired string for the user. How to do that depends on where your code runs: in tests, in a cron job, in a server component, or on the client-side. Generally, you will import a `getL10n` function from one of the modules in `/src/app/functions/l10n/`, except for [Client Components](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components), which use [the `useL10n` hook](./src/app/hooks/l10n.ts). Look at existing code for inspiration.

## Preview Deployment

We use GCP Cloudrun for dev review – official stage and production apps are built by the Dockerfile and Github Actions. Everything that is merged into `main` will deploy automatically to stage. The ADR for preview deployment can be found [here](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/blob/main/docs/adr/0008-preview-deployment.md)

_**TODO:** add full deploy process similar to Relay_

_**TODO:** consider whether we can re-enable Heroku Review Apps_
