docs/dependency-updates.md, before:

When dependencies release new versions, we want to make sure they don't break
Monitor when we upgrade. This document describes what to look for when an
upgrade comes in.

## Things to know

Typically, we receive update notifications from
[Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-alerts/about-dependabot-alerts),
which periodically checks for new versions of dependencies, and then submits
pull requests to update them. Project members can view the [details of the
latest dependency
scans](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/network/updates) to troubleshoot
issues.

Some terms to be aware of:

- **Checks**: at the bottom of a Pull Request's page, GitHub will list the
  outcomes of Continuous Integration runs. It calls these "checks".
- **CI results**: to view the results of a CI run (e.g. `unit-tests`), click
  the "Details" link next to the respective Check.
- **Preview deployment**: for every PR, an instance of Storybook with that PR's
  code is deployed to Netlify. You can view that deployment by clicking the
  "Details" link next to the `netlify/fx-monitor-storybook/deploy-preview` Check.
  (Additionally, at the time of writing, we are working on setting up a complete
  production-like environment with a PR's code. These can be found by following
  the "Preview URL" link that the `github-actions` bot leaves in a comment on
  PRs — by the time you're reading this, these may actually work 😅)

All dependency updates involve verifying that all Checks are successful,
investigating the results of failing CI runs, and a cursory inspection of the
changelog (if any) for anything that might be relevant to Monitor, in particular
when a dependency's [major version](https://semver.org/) is bumped, or when a
dependency doesn't use Semantic Versioning.

If you're unsure whether anything looks as expected, try to replicate what
you're doing on the `main` branch. If the results differ, there's probably an
issue with the update.
**Make sure to do a fresh install of the dependencies when switching branches!**

You can line up multiple Dependabot PRs for merging by leaving a comment saying
`@dependabot merge` on those PRs. Dependabot will then update the PRs with the
latest code from `main` and, if the Checks still succeed, merge it in.

## GitHub Actions

Every now and then a new version of a GitHub Action is released. You will
primarily need to check that those Actions still do what they're supposed to do.
For example, the unit tests Workflow (`/.github/workflows/unittests.yaml`) uses
the `setup-node` Action, so if that gets updated, the tests should continue to
run, and to result in a failing check if the tests fail.

## Docker / Node

Monitor specifies the official Node:Alpine Docker image, which bundles both the minimalistic
Alpine Linux distribution with the latest version of Node.

GitHub's Dependabot only updates `Dockerfile`, but the Node version is specified in many
different config files. The PR that Dependabot opens will always fail the lint check because
the script `./src/scripts/build/checkNodeVersionAlignment.js` will fail if the Node version isn't
set consistently across all config files.

1. clone the branch that Dependabot creates

e.g.

```sh
git clone dependabot/docker/node-22.6-alpine
```

2. Run the Node version alignment script and fix any problems it finds

```sh
node ./src/scripts/build/checkNodeVersionAlignment.js
```

3. Commit and push to branch Dependabot opened

e.g.

```sh
git push origin dependabot/docker/node-22.6-alpine
```

Lint on the GitHub PR should now pass and the PR may be merged.

Testing: NOTE This must be pushed to the stage environment and the full e2e test suite must pass
before this is pushed to production. The release notes must be reviewed to determine how
urgent the update is (e.g. security fixes) and if more thorough testing should be performed.

## npm

What follows is a list of npm dependencies and how to check for potential
breakage when they release new versions:

### `*lint*`, `@types/*`, `typescript`, `*jest*`, `jsdom`, `@testing-library/*`, `fast-check`, `prettier`

For linters, type definitions, and non-Playwright testing-related packages, a
successful CI run generally provides enough confidence that the upgrade is fine.
That said, it can't harm to occassionally scan the results of the
`build`, `lint` or `unittests` CI runs to see if any new warnings were
added.

### `react-intersection-observer`

We're using this to count how often certain page elements are shown to people.
See the `useViewTelemetry` hook in `src/app/hooks/useViewTelemetry.ts`. You can
execute `Glean.setLogPings(true)` in the console to enable showing those counts
in the console; an example of elements that should trigger it are the "Get free
scan" buttons on the landing page.

We're also using a test utility from this package (see the comments in
`/jest.setup.ts`), so if the tests pass as well, that part is probably fine.

### `@playwright/test` and `dotenv-flow`

Our Playwright tests run as two GitHub Actions Workflows: [PR e2e tests][] and
[cron e2e tests][]: the former runs a small subset of the end-to-end tests for PRs, the latter runs a more extensive suite once a day from the `main` branch.

TODO: Document how to run e2e tests locally, and refer to those docs here.

Once the PR is merged, you can wait for the daily test run, or manually run the
test by going to the [cron e2e tests][] GitHub Action page, select "Run
workflow", and pick the `main` branch and the `stage` environment.

[PR e2e tests]: https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/e2e_pr.yml
[cron e2e tests]: https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/e2e_cron.yml

### `storybook` and `@storybook/*`

Storybook allows us to view (parts of) the frontend in various states without
having to create a user account that is in exactly the right state. You can look
at the preview deployment that it still looks as expected.

### `@faker-js/faker`

Used to generate realistic-looking but fake data, primarily for use in Storybook
and tests. If the Storybooks still look normal and the tests succeed, this is
good to go.

### `react-aria` and `react-stately`

These dependencies handle most of the dynamic UI elements in our frontend, such
as the user menu and the app menu in the header, the modal dialogs, or the
toggle that allows you to switch between monthly and yearly pricing on the
landing page. To verfy these updates, open the preview deployments and check
that you can still interact with those using both a keyboard and a mouse.

### `@fluent/*`

[Fluent](https://projectfluent.org/) handles localisation, so verifying these
involves setting your browser language to something other than English, and
verifing that the website content indeed shows up in your chosen different
language.

### `next`

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) is the backbone of our website. You'll want to
run it, verify that you can still navigate from page to page, that data gets
saved successfully (e.g. by changing something on the settings page), and in
general that nothing looks off.

### `next-auth`

Next-Auth is responsible for handling the authentication process to Mozilla
Accounts, so if you can still log in, log out, and create a new account, it's
still working correctly.

### `sass`

[Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) gives us some handy tooling to ease working with
CSS. It can be verified by checking the preview deployment and making sure the
styling doesn't look weird.

### `react` and `react-dom`

[React](https://react.dev/) is our front-end framework. If you can open the
preview deployment and general interactions still work, these upgrades were
probably successful.

### `react-cookie`

Used to set and read various cookies. Perhaps the easiest way to verify this is
to set a `justDeletedAccount` cookie (with a value of `justDeletedAccount`) in a
Private Browsing window, and then open the landing page. You should see a
notification at the top saying

> Your ⁨Monitor⁩ account is now deleted.

### `@mozilla/glean` and `@next/third-parties`

These are used to learn about feature usages with respectively Glean (Mozilla's
internal tool) and Google Analytics. See `/docs/analytics.md` to learn how to
see that analytics data is still coming in correctly.

### `@leeoniya/ufuzzy`

This is used for the `<LocationAutocompleteInput>` component, or more
specifically, the API that provides location suggestions. It makes sure that you
can type e.g. `slc` and get "Salt Lake City" as a suggestion when entering your
address during the free data broker scan, so if that works, the update was fine.

### `canvas-confetti`

This is used for the small confetti animation when completing the guided
resolution flow. This can be seen in action in Storybook, in the story
`Logged in / Guided resolution / 4. Security recommendations / 4d. Done`.

### `react-toastify`

Used to display toast notifications, e.g. the error message when you try to
unsubscribe via the following page, which uses an invalid unsubscription
token: http://localhost:6060/unsubscribe-email/monthly-report-free?token=wrong

### `husky` and `lint-staged`

Used to run basic code formatting when committing. You can verify that these
work locally by changing formatting (e.g. changing `"` into `'`) and checking
that it gets changed back (resulting in an empty commit) when committing.

### `@stripe/stripe-js`

This is only included for fraud detection on the website and shouldn't otherwise
influence behaviour, so updates should generally be safe.

### `knex` and `pg`

We use Knex.js (which builds on `pg`) to interact with the database, so if you
can load your data and change your settings, nothing broke.

### `mjml` and `mjml-browser`

MJML is a templating language that outputs HTML that works well across the
notoriously incompatible email clients. We also render this HTML in Storybook
(under the "Emails" section), so if you can view it properly there, this update
probably went well.

### `esbuild`

Used to compile cronjob scripts. You can test this by running
`npm run build-cronjobs` and verifying that the output still looks sane in
`/dist/scripts/cronjobs/`.

### `tsx`

Used to run cronjobs locally and compile them on the fly. You can verify this by
running a cronjob like `npm run dev:cron:monthly-activity-plus`; if the cronjobs run
like in `main`, it's still working.

### `yaml`

Used to generate type definitions from our `nimbus.yaml` file. If
`npm run build-nimbus` still generates a sane-looking
`src/telemetry/generated/nimbus/experiments.ts`, it's still working as expected.

### `jsonwebtoken` and `jwk-to-pem`

The `fxa-rp-events` webhook endpoint uses these packages to parse [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token)
requests and to validate cryptographic signatures (which are in [PEM format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy-Enhanced_Mail)).

There currently isn't an easy way to test this locally, so dependency updates to these packages should be watched closely on stage
to ensure that [events from FxA](https://github.com/mozilla/fxa/blob/main/packages/fxa-event-broker/README.md) are processed correctly.

TODO [MNTOR-3515](https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/browse/MNTOR-3515): add a unit test so these can be exercised without requiring merging to stage.

### `uuid`

Used in places where a random identifier is needed:

- as a `nonce` in `src/middleware.ts` for CSP
- server-side Glean document IDs in `src/app/functions/server/glean.ts`
- as an experimentation ID for Nimbus in `src/app/functions/server/getUserId.tsx` and `src/app/functions/server/getExperimentationId.ts`
- for email verification tokens in `src/db/tables/emailAddresses.js`

1. Check that `nonce` is present in `content-security-policy` header for HTTP responses.
2. Check that `experimentationId` is set as a cookie in the form `guest-${uuid}`
3. Add a secondary email from the Settings screen and ensure that email verification works

### `@aws-sdk/*`

Used for S3, by the `npm run cron:db-pull-breaches` cron job.

This job runs periodically on stage and production to download Favicon files from DuckDuckGo and re-uploads them to Monitor's S3 bucket.
Check in the server logs that this job completed without errors.

### `@google-cloud/pubsub`

GCP PubSub is used for email breach notifications from HIBP:

- `src/app/api/v1/hibp/notify/route.ts` receives the breach notification and queues in PubSub
- `src/scripts/cronjobs/emailBreachAlerts.ts` is run by a periodic cron job

Check the server logs and ensure there are no errors. See
[this section of the README](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/blob/main/README.md#incoming-webhook-requests-from-hibp-will-be-of-the-form)
for information about simulating a breach alert.

See `./src/loadtest/hibp.js` for a K6 load testing script which will exercise this.

### `@grpc/grpc-js`

GRPC is used as a communication protocol for various GCP services.

Monitor uses it to facilitate the local PubSub emulator. See [this section of the README](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/blob/main/README.md#pubsub)
for instructions on running the Pub/Sub emulator locally.

### `winston` and `@google-cloud/logging-winston`

Winston is a logging library that provides structured logging in GCP.

Look for any `logger.*` statement in `./src` and ensure that log messages are
being written as [structured
logs](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/structured-logging).

For example, if you are logged in with a non-Plus user, then visit
http://localhost:6060/user/dashboard/fix/data-broker-profiles/welcome-to-plus,
you should see the following in the server-side logs:

    {"level":"error","message":"user_not_subscribed","page":"welcome-to-premium"}

### `@sentry/*`

Sentry is an error reporting service that captured front-end (browser) as well as back-end (Node) error messages.

In normal operation nothing should be sent to Sentry, but you can verify that the SDK is loading:

1. in the browser, verify that there are no errors related to Sentry in the devtools console
2. in the server logs, verify `instrumentationHook` is logged as enabled and there are no errors related to Sentry

### `nodemailer`

Nodemailer is used by `src/utils/email.js` to send all email related to Monitor. It uses AWS Simple Email Services (SES) by default,
which is controlled by the `SMTP_URL` environment variable. Any `smtps://` URL can be used here for testing, and any email Monitor sends
can be used for testing.

Monitor provides a tool for sending test email at the endpoint `/admin/emails`.

### `adm-zip`

This is used as part of downloading and unzipping location data for the auto-complete address feature.

Normally this is run by cron and uploads to an S3 bucket, the upload step can be skipped with:

```sh
npm run create-location-data -- --skip-upload
```

TODO: Describe how to verify that uploading auto-complete locations still works
as expected.

Commit message:

chore: Add dependency update note for @google-cloud/bigquery

docs/dependency-updates.md, after:

When dependencies release new versions, we want to make sure they don't break
Monitor when we upgrade. This document describes what to look for when an
upgrade comes in.

## Things to know

Typically, we receive update notifications from
[Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-alerts/about-dependabot-alerts),
which periodically checks for new versions of dependencies, and then submits
pull requests to update them. Project members can view the [details of the
latest dependency
scans](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/network/updates) to troubleshoot
issues.

Some terms to be aware of:

- **Checks**: at the bottom of a Pull Request's page, GitHub will list the
  outcomes of Continuous Integration runs. It calls these "checks".
- **CI results**: to view the results of a CI run (e.g. `unit-tests`), click
  the "Details" link next to the respective Check.
- **Preview deployment**: for every PR, an instance of Storybook with that PR's
  code is deployed to Netlify. You can view that deployment by clicking the
  "Details" link next to the `netlify/fx-monitor-storybook/deploy-preview` Check.
  (Additionally, at the time of writing, we are working on setting up a complete
  production-like environment with a PR's code. These can be found by following
  the "Preview URL" link that the `github-actions` bot leaves in a comment on
  PRs — by the time you're reading this, these may actually work 😅)

All dependency updates involve verifying that all Checks are successful,
investigating the results of failing CI runs, and a cursory inspection of the
changelog (if any) for anything that might be relevant to Monitor, in particular
when a dependency's [major version](https://semver.org/) is bumped, or when a
dependency doesn't use Semantic Versioning.

If you're unsure whether anything looks as expected, try to replicate what
you're doing on the `main` branch. If the results differ, there's probably an
issue with the update.
**Make sure to do a fresh install of the dependencies when switching branches!**

You can line up multiple Dependabot PRs for merging by leaving a comment saying
`@dependabot merge` on those PRs. Dependabot will then update the PRs with the
latest code from `main` and, if the Checks still succeed, merge it in.

## GitHub Actions

Every now and then a new version of a GitHub Action is released. You will
primarily need to check that those Actions still do what they're supposed to do.
For example, the unit tests Workflow (`/.github/workflows/unittests.yaml`) uses
the `setup-node` Action, so if that gets updated, the tests should continue to
run, and to result in a failing check if the tests fail.

## Docker / Node

Monitor specifies the official Node:Alpine Docker image, which bundles both the minimalistic
Alpine Linux distribution with the latest version of Node.

GitHub's Dependabot only updates `Dockerfile`, but the Node version is specified in many
different config files. The PR that Dependabot opens will always fail the lint check because
the script `./src/scripts/build/checkNodeVersionAlignment.js` will fail if the Node version isn't
set consistently across all config files.

1. clone the branch that Dependabot creates

e.g.

```sh
git clone dependabot/docker/node-22.6-alpine
```

2. Run the Node version alignment script and fix any problems it finds

```sh
node ./src/scripts/build/checkNodeVersionAlignment.js
```

3. Commit and push to branch Dependabot opened

e.g.

```sh
git push origin dependabot/docker/node-22.6-alpine
```

Lint on the GitHub PR should now pass and the PR may be merged.

Testing: NOTE This must be pushed to the stage environment and the full e2e test suite must pass
before this is pushed to production. The release notes must be reviewed to determine how
urgent the update is (e.g. security fixes) and if more thorough testing should be performed.

## npm

What follows is a list of npm dependencies and how to check for potential
breakage when they release new versions:

### `*lint*`, `@types/*`, `typescript`, `*jest*`, `jsdom`, `@testing-library/*`, `fast-check`, `prettier`

For linters, type definitions, and non-Playwright testing-related packages, a
successful CI run generally provides enough confidence that the upgrade is fine.
That said, it can't harm to occassionally scan the results of the
`build`, `lint` or `unittests` CI runs to see if any new warnings were
added.

### `react-intersection-observer`

We're using this to count how often certain page elements are shown to people.
See the `useViewTelemetry` hook in `src/app/hooks/useViewTelemetry.ts`. You can
execute `Glean.setLogPings(true)` in the console to enable showing those counts
in the console; an example of elements that should trigger it are the "Get free
scan" buttons on the landing page.

We're also using a test utility from this package (see the comments in
`/jest.setup.ts`), so if the tests pass as well, that part is probably fine.

### `@playwright/test` and `dotenv-flow`

Our Playwright tests run as two GitHub Actions Workflows: [PR e2e tests][] and
[cron e2e tests][]: the former runs a small subset of the end-to-end tests for PRs, the latter runs a more extensive suite once a day from the `main` branch.

TODO: Document how to run e2e tests locally, and refer to those docs here.

Once the PR is merged, you can wait for the daily test run, or manually run the
test by going to the [cron e2e tests][] GitHub Action page, select "Run
workflow", and pick the `main` branch and the `stage` environment.

[PR e2e tests]: https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/e2e_pr.yml
[cron e2e tests]: https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/e2e_cron.yml

### `storybook` and `@storybook/*`

Storybook allows us to view (parts of) the frontend in various states without
having to create a user account that is in exactly the right state. You can look
at the preview deployment that it still looks as expected.

### `@faker-js/faker`

Used to generate realistic-looking but fake data, primarily for use in Storybook
and tests. If the Storybooks still look normal and the tests succeed, this is
good to go.

### `react-aria` and `react-stately`

These dependencies handle most of the dynamic UI elements in our frontend, such
as the user menu and the app menu in the header, the modal dialogs, or the
toggle that allows you to switch between monthly and yearly pricing on the
landing page. To verfy these updates, open the preview deployments and check
that you can still interact with those using both a keyboard and a mouse.

### `@fluent/*`

[Fluent](https://projectfluent.org/) handles localisation, so verifying these
involves setting your browser language to something other than English, and
verifing that the website content indeed shows up in your chosen different
language.

### `next`

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) is the backbone of our website. You'll want to
run it, verify that you can still navigate from page to page, that data gets
saved successfully (e.g. by changing something on the settings page), and in
general that nothing looks off.

### `next-auth`

Next-Auth is responsible for handling the authentication process to Mozilla
Accounts, so if you can still log in, log out, and create a new account, it's
still working correctly.

### `sass`

[Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) gives us some handy tooling to ease working with
CSS. It can be verified by checking the preview deployment and making sure the
styling doesn't look weird.

### `react` and `react-dom`

[React](https://react.dev/) is our front-end framework. If you can open the
preview deployment and general interactions still work, these upgrades were
probably successful.

### `react-cookie`

Used to set and read various cookies. Perhaps the easiest way to verify this is
to set a `justDeletedAccount` cookie (with a value of `justDeletedAccount`) in a
Private Browsing window, and then open the landing page. You should see a
notification at the top saying

> Your ⁨Monitor⁩ account is now deleted.

### `@mozilla/glean` and `@next/third-parties`

These are used to learn about feature usages with respectively Glean (Mozilla's
internal tool) and Google Analytics. See `/docs/analytics.md` to learn how to
see that analytics data is still coming in correctly.

### `@leeoniya/ufuzzy`

This is used for the `<LocationAutocompleteInput>` component, or more
specifically, the API that provides location suggestions. It makes sure that you
can type e.g. `slc` and get "Salt Lake City" as a suggestion when entering your
address during the free data broker scan, so if that works, the update was fine.

### `canvas-confetti`

This is used for the small confetti animation when completing the guided
resolution flow. This can be seen in action in Storybook, in the story
`Logged in / Guided resolution / 4. Security recommendations / 4d. Done`.

### `react-toastify`

Used to display toast notifications, e.g. the error message when you try to
unsubscribe via the following page, which uses an invalid unsubscription
token: http://localhost:6060/unsubscribe-email/monthly-report-free?token=wrong

### `husky` and `lint-staged`

Used to run basic code formatting when committing. You can verify that these
work locally by changing formatting (e.g. changing `"` into `'`) and checking
that it gets changed back (resulting in an empty commit) when committing.

### `@stripe/stripe-js`

This is only included for fraud detection on the website and shouldn't otherwise
influence behaviour, so updates should generally be safe.

### `knex` and `pg`

We use Knex.js (which builds on `pg`) to interact with the database, so if you
can load your data and change your settings, nothing broke.

### `mjml` and `mjml-browser`

MJML is a templating language that outputs HTML that works well across the
notoriously incompatible email clients. We also render this HTML in Storybook
(under the "Emails" section), so if you can view it properly there, this update
probably went well.

### `esbuild`

Used to compile cronjob scripts. You can test this by running
`npm run build-cronjobs` and verifying that the output still looks sane in
`/dist/scripts/cronjobs/`.

### `tsx`

Used to run cronjobs locally and compile them on the fly. You can verify this by
running a cronjob like `npm run dev:cron:monthly-activity-plus`; if the cronjobs run
like in `main`, it's still working.

### `yaml`

Used to generate type definitions from our `nimbus.yaml` file. If
`npm run build-nimbus` still generates a sane-looking
`src/telemetry/generated/nimbus/experiments.ts`, it's still working as expected.

### `jsonwebtoken` and `jwk-to-pem`

The `fxa-rp-events` webhook endpoint uses these packages to parse [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token)
requests and to validate cryptographic signatures (which are in [PEM format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy-Enhanced_Mail)).

There currently isn't an easy way to test this locally, so dependency updates to these packages should be watched closely on stage
to ensure that [events from FxA](https://github.com/mozilla/fxa/blob/main/packages/fxa-event-broker/README.md) are processed correctly.

TODO [MNTOR-3515](https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/browse/MNTOR-3515): add a unit test so these can be exercised without requiring merging to stage.

### `uuid`

Used in places where a random identifier is needed:

- as a `nonce` in `src/middleware.ts` for CSP
- server-side Glean document IDs in `src/app/functions/server/glean.ts`
- as an experimentation ID for Nimbus in `src/app/functions/server/getUserId.tsx` and `src/app/functions/server/getExperimentationId.ts`
- for email verification tokens in `src/db/tables/emailAddresses.js`

1. Check that `nonce` is present in `content-security-policy` header for HTTP responses.
2. Check that `experimentationId` is set as a cookie in the form `guest-${uuid}`
3. Add a secondary email from the Settings screen and ensure that email verification works

### `@aws-sdk/*`

Used for S3, by the `npm run cron:db-pull-breaches` cron job.

This job runs periodically on stage and production to download Favicon files from DuckDuckGo and re-uploads them to Monitor's S3 bucket.
Check in the server logs that this job completed without errors.

### `@google-cloud/bigquery`

The Node.js client for Google Cloud BigQuery is used for uploading data.

Currently, we use this dependency to upload the results of the [Lighthouse Report Cron](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/actions/workflows/lighthouse_cron.yml) to BigQuery. To verify that the cron job is working as expected we can run the GitHub Action manually against `stage` after a dependency update.

### `@google-cloud/pubsub`

GCP PubSub is used for email breach notifications from HIBP:

- `src/app/api/v1/hibp/notify/route.ts` receives the breach notification and queues in PubSub
- `src/scripts/cronjobs/emailBreachAlerts.ts` is run by a periodic cron job

Check the server logs and ensure there are no errors. See
[this section of the README](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/blob/main/README.md#incoming-webhook-requests-from-hibp-will-be-of-the-form)
for information about simulating a breach alert.

See `./src/loadtest/hibp.js` for a K6 load testing script which will exercise this.

### `@grpc/grpc-js`

GRPC is used as a communication protocol for various GCP services.

Monitor uses it to facilitate the local PubSub emulator. See [this section of the README](https://github.com/mozilla/blurts-server/blob/main/README.md#pubsub)
for instructions on running the Pub/Sub emulator locally.

### `winston` and `@google-cloud/logging-winston`

Winston is a logging library that provides structured logging in GCP.

Look for any `logger.*` statement in `./src` and ensure that log messages are
being written as [structured
logs](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/structured-logging).

For example, if you are logged in with a non-Plus user, then visit
http://localhost:6060/user/dashboard/fix/data-broker-profiles/welcome-to-plus,
you should see the following in the server-side logs:

    {"level":"error","message":"user_not_subscribed","page":"welcome-to-premium"}

### `@sentry/*`

Sentry is an error reporting service that captured front-end (browser) as well as back-end (Node) error messages.

In normal operation nothing should be sent to Sentry, but you can verify that the SDK is loading:

1. in the browser, verify that there are no errors related to Sentry in the devtools console
2. in the server logs, verify `instrumentationHook` is logged as enabled and there are no errors related to Sentry

### `nodemailer`

Nodemailer is used by `src/utils/email.js` to send all email related to Monitor. It uses AWS Simple Email Services (SES) by default,
which is controlled by the `SMTP_URL` environment variable. Any `smtps://` URL can be used here for testing, and any email Monitor sends
can be used for testing.

Monitor provides a tool for sending test email at the endpoint `/admin/emails`.

### `adm-zip`

This is used as part of downloading and unzipping location data for the auto-complete address feature.

Normally this is run by cron and uploads to an S3 bucket, the upload step can be skipped with:

```sh
npm run create-location-data -- --skip-upload
```

TODO: Describe how to verify that uploading auto-complete locations still works
as expected.
